Bulk-create or update issues from a file. The file's extension picks the
format: .yaml or .yml is the YAML bulk format, which creates or updates;
any other extension is the JSON tree spec, which only creates.

Both formats reject any key they do not name, so a misspelled field fails
the whole file rather than being dropped. Structure is checked before
anything is written — required keys, duplicate ids, unresolvable
references, cycles, and (in a JSON file) type and priority. The remaining
value rules below are enforced as each issue is created, so a bad topic
or label fails partway through and the creates already made are rolled
back. See Results for what rollback covers.

JSON tree spec (creates only)

  An array of records, one per issue:

    [
      {"local_id": "epic-x", "title": "Build the exporter",
       "type": "epic", "topic": "exporter"},
      {"local_id": "design", "parent": "epic-x", "title": "Design it",
       "type": "task", "topic": "exporter", "priority": 1},
      {"local_id": "build", "parent": "epic-x", "depends_on": ["design"],
       "title": "Build it", "type": "task", "topic": "exporter"}
    ]

  Keys: local_id, title, type, topic, priority, description, prompt,
  assignee, labels, parent, depends_on. Anything after the closing
  bracket is an error.

  local_id is required on every record: it is how parent and depends_on
  name another record before real IDs exist. Those two may only name a
  local_id in this same file — a real, already-existing issue ID is
  rejected here; use the YAML format to hang new issues off issues that
  already exist.

  title, type, and topic are required on every record. priority may be
  omitted and then defaults to 0.

YAML bulk file (creates and updates)

  One issue per YAML document, documents separated by ---. The file is a
  stream of documents, not a list: a top-level YAML sequence is rejected.

    local_id: epic-x
    title: Build the exporter
    type: epic
    topic: exporter
    ---
    title: Design it
    type: task
    topic: exporter
    parent: epic-x
    ---
    id: lit-exporter-7fq2
    title: Build it, renamed
    labels: [reviewed]
    reason: retitled after review

  id decides what a document does, and nothing else does. Absent, the
  document creates. Present, it updates exactly that issue; an id
  matching no existing issue is an error, never a create. One id may not
  appear on two documents.

  A create document requires title, type and topic exactly as a JSON
  record does, and takes the same optional keys plus lane. local_id is
  optional here (a create without one is reported under its new real ID).
  parent and depends_on may name either a local_id in this file or the
  real ID of an issue that already exists. reason is rejected on a
  create: there is no prior value for it to annotate.

  An update document must set at least one of title, description, prompt,
  type, priority, assignee, labels, lane. A document carrying only id, or
  only id and reason, has nothing to apply and is rejected; reason is
  free text recorded on the change event, not itself a change.

  Four keys are rejected outright on an update document, each belonging
  to something else: topic (immutable — no command changes it after
  create), local_id (create-only), parent (reparent with lit parent set),
  depends_on (wire dependencies with lit dep add).

Values both formats enforce

  type is one of task, feature, bug, chore, epic.

  priority is 0 (normal) or 1 (urgent). No other number is accepted.

  topic is lowercased with runs of non-alphanumerics collapsed to a
  single dash, and must be 3 to 30 characters after that, so a topic of
  "x" fails.

  labels are lowercased and deduplicated, and may not contain commas.

  id, local_id, parent and depends_on values are matched literally:
  leading or trailing whitespace in any of them is rejected, not trimmed.

  A local_id may not be used twice in one file, a record may not name its
  own local_id in its own depends_on, and parent/depends_on references
  within the file may not form a cycle. A depends_on pointing at an issue
  that already exists is also rejected if it would close a cycle in the
  blocks graph.

  A file with zero records or zero documents is an error.

Results

  Created issues land at the bottom of the ranked order. Output is the
  number created and one "name -> real id" line each, where the name is
  the local_id (or the new real ID when the document gave none), followed
  for a YAML file by the number updated and their IDs.

  On any failure, issues created earlier in the same run are rolled back
  on a best-effort basis by deleting them; updates already applied are
  not rolled back, since there is no prior state to restore. If the error
  reports that rollback leaked IDs, run lit doctor.

  A full-database export is a different shape than either format above;
  load one with lit backup restore.
