Workflows are user-authored guidance lit injects into its own output at
declared moments in the work lifecycle. One definition is a markdown file
with YAML frontmatter: the frontmatter says when to fire, the body says what
to inject. Nothing here is enforced — a definition only adds text to what a
command already prints; it never blocks or gates anything.

Where definitions live

  A definition is any *.md file found recursively under a layer root. Three
  layers, nearest first:

    project    .lit/workflows/ in this repository (checked in, team-wide)
    global     workflows/ under lit's config directory —
               $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/links-issue-tracker/ when that is set,
               otherwise ~/.config/links-issue-tracker/
    embedded   defaults shipped inside the lit binary

  The folder hierarchy under a root is arbitrary; the path carries no
  activation meaning, only frontmatter decides when a definition fires.
  Definitions resolve by id with the nearest layer winning outright: a
  project file with the same id as a global or embedded one replaces it
  whole, never field by field. An id defaults to the file's layer-relative
  path with .md dropped and spaces turned to underscores, so the same
  relative path at two layers overrides without declaring an id at all.
  Within one layer a duplicate id keeps the first file in lexical order and
  warns about the rest. Loading never fails a lit command: an unreadable or
  malformed file becomes a warning instead.

Format

  A minimal, legal definition:

    ---
    id: done
    name: Post-close capture reminder
    events: [work_finished]
    labels: [user-facing]
    ---
    Ticket <id> is closed. Capture what the next agent needs to know
    before moving on.

  Every key is optional. In the body, <id> is replaced with the acted-on
  ticket's id when the moment has one. Unrecognized keys are tolerated, so
  a file authored against a newer lit still loads here.

Activation

  Three dimensions decide when a definition fires.

  labels   Fires when the acted-on ticket carries any listed label. Labels
           are lowercased on both sides, so case never matters. A label
           that no ticket could carry (one containing a comma) is dropped
           with a warning rather than silently never matching.

  states   Fires when the ticket enters or exits a listed state. Two
           authored shapes, usable in one list:

             states:
               - open                        # fires ENTERING open
               - {name: closed, when: exit}  # fires EXITING closed

           A bare name means enter. State names are open strings, not a
           closed enum: the built-in open, in_progress and closed and any
           custom stage a project adopts are the same shape here. A
           transition is exit-of-one plus enter-of-the-other; there is no
           separate transition concept. A moment carrying no transition
           never satisfies a state binding.

  events   Fires when a listed semantic event is dispatched. Commands
           dispatch events and definitions bind to events, never to
           command names, so a command can be renamed without breaking an
           authored definition. An event outside this binary's catalog
           still loads — it may target a newer lit — but can never fire
           here, and is reported as a warning.

  Within one dimension the listed values are alternatives (OR). Across
  dimensions, every dimension the definition declares must be satisfied
  (AND) — labels plus events fires only on a ticket carrying one of those
  labels at one of those events. A dimension left out entirely constrains
  nothing. A definition declaring none of the three is inert: it loads and
  is listed, but it can never fire, and lit workflows flags it under
  Warnings.

Event catalog

  Every event lit can dispatch, and what dispatches it today:

    show_backlog       lit backlog
    next_pulled        lit next, when it has a ticket to hand back
    show_ticket        lit show
    work_started       lit start
    work_finished      lit done
    ticket_closed      lit close
    ticket_reopened    lit open
    ticket_created     lit new, lit followup
    ticket_updated     lit update
    comment_added      lit comment add

The subcommands

  Bare lit workflows prints the lifecycle spine — every catalog event; the
  three built-in states plus any custom stage a loaded definition binds to,
  each with its enter and exit sides; and every label a loaded definition
  binds to — annotated with the definitions active at each point and the
  layer each resolved from, then a Warnings section naming every file that
  loaded but cannot fully fire: inert, unknown event, malformed
  frontmatter, duplicate id.

  show <id> prints one resolved definition: id, name, source layer, path,
  its three activation dimensions, and its body.

  edit <id-or-point> scaffolds a project-layer file and prints its path. It
  resolves the argument two ways:

    An existing definition's id — override it. A project-layer definition
    already is the override, so edit just opens it; a global or embedded
    one is copied verbatim into .lit/workflows/ at the same relative path,
    ready to change.

    Anything else is a lifecycle point with nothing bound there yet,
    resolved in this order: <state>:enter or <state>:exit; a catalog event
    name; one of open, in_progress or closed bare (meaning enter); anything
    else, a label. The fresh file is scaffolded with every dimension shown
    as a comment and the requested one live.

  edit never overwrites — an occupied path fails with a conflict message,
  so edit that file directly or pick another point. It always prints the
  path, and additionally opens $EDITOR only when stdout is a terminal and
  $EDITOR is set; an agent, a pipe or a script gets the path alone.

  The guidance printed after lit done is the embedded definition with id
  done, bound to events: [work_finished]. Run lit workflows edit done to
  copy it into .lit/workflows/done.md and rewrite the body; add a labels
  key there to narrow it to matching tickets, since the two dimensions then
  AND together. Delete that file to fall back to the embedded default.

  dry-run answers "what would inject here" without a real occasion. The
  flags describe a hypothetical one; the output names every definition that
  would fire, which specific label, event or state activation matched it,
  and the body that would be injected, with <id> interpolated from --issue.
  Pass --event to exercise an event-bound definition and --enter or --exit
  for a state-bound one: a dimension left unset satisfies no definition
  that declares it. A hypothetical matching nothing exits cleanly with
  Fired (0). dry-run writes nothing and reads no ticket data.

  A real occasion that fires at least one definition records a JSON trace —
  the occasion, every definition that fired, and the same reasons dry-run
  prints — under traces/workflows/ in the workspace storage directory that
  lit workspace reports as storage_dir. An occasion matching nothing leaves
  no trace.
